








Litigation Tracker: Legal Challenges to Trump Administration Actions



































































































Just Security – JustSecurity.org

Skip to content




Just Security Logo in opposite color link to homepage























 



Masthead
Support
Newsletters
 



Substack icon opens the Just Security page






Follow us on BlueSky


Bluesky icon opens the Just Security page


Follow us on BlueSky


Linkedin icon opens the Just Security page


Follow us on Linkedin


Threads icon opens the Just Security page


Follow us on Threads


Facebook icon opens the Just Security page


Follow us on Facebook


Instagram icon opens the Just Security Instagram page


Follow us on Instagram


YouTube icon opens the Just Security page


Follow us on YouTube
 




Icon for a menu opens the mobile menu






Open Fly-Out MenuKey Topics




Armed Conflict

Civilian Harm
Middle East Wars
Russia-Ukraine
Sudan
Law of Armed Conflict/IHL
Use of Force






AI & Emerging Technology

Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Cyber
Social Media Platforms


Climate Change
Congress
Courts & Litigation




Democracy & Rule of Law

Democratic Backsliding & Solutions
Elections
Rule of Law


Diplomacy
Executive Branch
Human Rights




International Law

International Criminal Law
International Human Rights Law
Law of Armed Conflict/IHL
Use of Force


Intelligence & Surveillance
Immigration




Local Voices
Racial Justice
Terrorism & Violent Extremism

Counterterrorism
Domestic Violent Extremism







Series
Resources

Collection: Iran, Israel and the United States at War (2025-2026 Operations)
Collection: U.S. Lethal Strikes on Suspected Drug Traffickers, Operation Southern Spear, Operation Absolute Resolve
Collection: ICE and CBP Operations in Minnesota and Other States
Litigation Tracker: Legal Challenges to Trump Administration Actions
The Anti-Corruption Tracker: Mapping the Erosion of Oversight and Accountability
Just Security’s Artificial Intelligence Archive
Just Security’s Russia–Ukraine War Archive
Collection: U.S., Greenland, and NATO
Jus Ad Bellum: Syllabus Supplements
International Humanitarian Law: Syllabus Supplements
Immigration Law & Policy: Syllabus Supplements
Collection: Just Security’s Coverage of Trump Administration Executive Actions
Just Security’s Israel-Hamas War Archive
Just Security’s Climate Archive
Russia’s Eliminationist Rhetoric Against Ukraine: A Collection
Translations
Mapping State Reactions to the ICC Arrest Warrants for Netanyahu and Gallant


Trump Admin Litigation Tracker
Podcasts
About

About Just Security
Masthead
Advisory Board
Guest Authors
Write for Us
Work With Us
Contact





Just Security Logo



























 


Icon of search glass will submit search query


×
 







      Search for:   


×

         Powered by   Algolia




Icon of search glass will submit search query

 Submit search query





Litigation Tracker: Legal Challenges to Trump Administration ActionsBy Just SecurityPublished on May 22, 2026Share

Bluesky icon opens the Just Security page


Follow us on BlueSky


X (Twitter) icon opens the Just Security page


Follow us on Twitter


Linkedin icon opens the Just Security page


Follow us on Linkedin


Threads icon opens the Just Security page


Follow us on Threads


Facebook icon opens the Just Security page


Follow us on Facebook


Print icon prints the current page


Print this page


Link icon saves the current page URL to your clipboard


Copy this page URL to your clipboard
URL copied to clipboard.
This living, searchable resource tracks legal challenges to Trump administration executive actions. If you think we are missing anything, you can email us at [email protected]. The Tracker is part of the Collection: Just Security’s Coverage of the Trump Administration’s Executive Actions.
For important litigation updates delivered to your inbox at the end of every weekday, sign up for “Today on Just Security,” a weekday newsletter that also includes our articles from the day. Readers may also be interested in signing up for our free Early Edition roundup of global and national news each workday morning. (Both sign-ups are free and we respect your privacy; your email address is only used to send you the requested email). If you would like to help support our efforts, we appreciate donations of any amount, as it takes a village to produce this work.
Total number of cases currently tracked: 805.
+Tracker Totals: Overall Case Status Snapshot
Government Action Blocked: 64Government Action Temporarily Blocked: 137Government Action Blocked Pending Appeal: 34Case Closed in Favor of Plaintiff: 27Total Plaintiff Wins: 262Temporary Block of Government Action Denied: 56Government Action Not Blocked Pending Appeal: 42Case Closed/Dismissed in Favor of Government: 28Total Government Wins: 126Awaiting Court Ruling: 362Government Action Temporarily Blocked in Part; Temporary Block Denied in Part: 17Case Closed: 37

+Methodology: What’s included in our tracker? What's excluded?

We do not track cases in which the Trump administration is the plaintiff/files a civil lawsuit. Some other organizations include those cases in their litigation trackers – ours tracks only challenges to Trump administration executive actions.
We do not count appeals as separate cases. (The appeal of a district court decision to a Court of Appeals and/or Supreme Court is part of the same case.)
We treat as one case all the lawsuits involving the removal of F-1 foreign student visa registration. According to Politico, there were “more than 100 lawsuits and 50 restraining orders from dozens of federal judges,” before the government reversed its decision and restored the F-1 registrations on or about Apr. 25, 2025.
On tariffs policy, we track eight principal cases. We do not track the dozens of individual cases that have been filed in the Court of International Trade challenging the administration’s tariff policies.   
We treat as one case all the lawsuits involving the administration’s new mandatory immigration detention policy. Politico reported, as of Nov. 28, 2025, “at least 225 judges have ruled in more than 700 cases that the administration’s new policy, which also deprives people of an opportunity to seek release from an immigration court, is a likely violation of law and the right to due process.”





Case NameFilingsDate Case FiledState A.G.'sCase StatusIssueExecutive ActionLast Case UpdateCase SummaryCase Updates




National Association of the Deaf v. Trump (D.D.C.)1:25-cv-01683Complaint2025-05-28Government Action Temporarily BlockedCivil Liberties and RightsAccessibility2025-11-13In January 2025, the Trump administration stopped providing ASL interpreters at public press briefings and other similar events. The federal government had provided ASL interpretation for all coronavirus press briefings following a court order in October 2020 and began voluntarily providing interpretation services at all press briefings by key administration officials in January 2021.The National Association of the Deaf (NAD), a civil rights organization, and two members of NAD are suing President Trump, Susan Wiles, the White House Chief of Staff, Karoline Leavitt, the Press Secretary to the President, and a number of offices within the White House to challenge the decision to stop providing ASL interpretation. Plaintiffs argue that without such services, deaf and hard of hearing individuals are unable to meaningfully access federal government programs and services or participate in American society. Plaintiffs claim that Defendants are violating the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which prohibits executive agencies from discriminating against individuals with disabilities when conducting any program or activity. Plaintiffs also allege that Defendants are violating the First Amendment, arguing that freedom of speech includes the right to receive information and that this deprivation impinges on their ability to petition the government. Plaintiffs further argue that the Fifth Amendment is violated because Plaintiffs are being denied equal protection under the law by being treated differently and because the Plaintiffs’ fundamental rights under the First Amendment are being impinged upon. Plaintiffs seek preliminary and permanent injunctive relief requiring Defendants to provide ASL interpreters at press briefings and other similar events. They also seek a court declaration that Defendants are violating the Rehabilitation Act and the First and Fifth Amendments.Nov. 4, 2025: Judge Ali granted plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction in part, ordering the administration to provide a simultaneous and publicly accessible feed with American Sign Language (“ASL”) interpretation for “all publicly announced White House press briefings conducted by the President or White House Press Secretary that are captured by White House communication channels.” The court found that the administration’s decision to end ASL interpretation likely violated the Rehabilitation Act, which prohibits excluding people with disabilities from participation in, denying them benefits of, or discriminating against them in Executive agency programming. The court did not grant the plaintiffs’ request to require ASL interpretation for Vice President, First Lady, or Second Lady press briefings or events and that interpretation be provided for all videos on the White House website and social media pages. Nov. 13, 2025: Defendants appealed to the D.C. Circuit, Case No. 25-5402.


Perkins Coie LLP v. U.S. Department of Justice (D.D.C.)1:25-cv-00716ComplaintAmended Complaint 2025-04-292025-03-11Plaintiff-side State AmicusGovernment Action BlockedCivil Liberties and RightsAction Against Law Firms and Lawyers (Executive Order 14230 - Perkins Coie) (Executive Order 14246 - Jenner & Block) (Executive Order - WilmerHale) (Presidential Memorandum)2026-04-03On March 6, 2025, President Donald Trump issued an executive order (EO) accusing the law firm Perkins Coie LLP of undermining democracy and maintaining illegal race-based hiring quotas. The executive order directs various agencies to impose sanctions against the firm, including: terminating the firm’s government contracts; suspending employees’ security clearances pending a national-security review; ordering a review of the firm’s hiring practices by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; limiting employees’ access to federal buildings; and directing agencies not to hire Perkins Coie employees. Plaintiff sued on March 11, alleging that the executive action is unconstitutional, violating separation of powers, the First Amendment’s protections for freedom of speech and association, the Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause, the Fifth and Sixth Amendment’s right to counsel, and the Fourteenth Amendment’s Equal Protection Clause. They seek a declaratory judgment that the order is unconstitutional and an immediate injunction stopping implementation of the order pending court review, followed by preliminary and permanent injunctions. The Plaintiff also submitted a request for a temporary restraining order and a proposed order that enjoined only Sections 1 (Purpose), 3 (Contracting), and 5 (Personnel including access to Federal Government buildings) of the executive order.March 12, 2025: State Attorneys General submitted an amicus brief in support of Plaintiffs.March 12, 2025: Judge Beryl Howell, ruling from the bench, granted Perkins Coie’s request for a temporary restraining order to block Sections 1, 3, and 5 of the executive order. During the hearing, she reportedly noted that the Plaintiff had not requested the TRO apply to Section 2 (Security Clearances) and Section 4 (Racial Discrimination) of the executive order, although those sections are also part of the lawsuit. She followed hours later with a written order.March 21, 2025: The Defendant filed a motion to disqualify the judge. On March 26, the court denied the motion.April 2, 2025: Perkins Coie filed a motion for summary judgment and requested the court to permanently block Defendants from enforcing the EO. Perkins Coie argues the court should declare the EO unlawful for violating the First, Fifth, and Sixth Amendments to the Constitution, exceeding the President’s constitutional authority under Article II, and violating the separation of powers. On that same day, the DOJ filed a motion to dismiss Plaintiffs’ complaint, arguing that the EO directs the review of Perkins Coie to ensure that the Federal Government’s dealings with the firm are consistent with national security and other public interests. Defendants also filed a motion to reconsider the scope of the TRO granted on March 12, arguing it is overly broad because the United States is not a proper defendant.April 16, 2025: Perkins Coie filed its opposition to the DOJ’s motion to dismiss, emphasizing the retaliatory nature of the EO. On that same day, the DOJ filed its opposition to Perkins Coie’s motion for summary judgment, instead requesting the court grant its motion to dismiss.April 18, 2025: The DOJ replied to Perkins Coie’s opposition to its motion to dismiss, asserting Perkins Coie’s conduct is subject to reasonable scrutiny and that the court is not the proper recourse for Perkins Coie’s concerns. On that same day, Perkins Coie replied to the DOJ’s opposition to its motion for summary judgment, emphasizing its view that the EO is “blatantly unconstitutional” and requesting the court grant its summary judgment motion on all claims.April 29, 2025: Perkins Coie amended its complaint to list all of the defendants and their addresses.April 30, 2025: The Fannie Mae defendants were voluntarily dismissed in a notice by Perkins Coie. On that same day, Perkins Coie filed a motion for summary judgment and the DOJ renewed its motion to dismiss and requested expedited judgment.May 2, 2025: Judge Howell held that the EO violates the law and is invalid. Specifically, Judge Howell held that the EO violates the First, Fifth, and Sixth Amendments and permanently enjoined the DOJ from implementing, enforcing, or using statements from the EO in any way. Judge Howell granted Perkins Coie’s motion for summary judgment and declaratory relief and denied the DOJ’s motion to dismiss.May 20, 2025: Following Defendants’ motion to clarify Judge Howell’s May 2 summary-judgment and permanent-injunction order, Judge Howell confirmed the the permanent injunction as to Section 4 of the EO applies only to Plaintiff Perkins Coie and does not enjoin Defendants with respect to other law firms or the legal profession generally.June 30, 2025: The Department of Justice filed a notice of appeal in response to Judge Howell’s judgment and injunction blocking Executive Order 14230, which explicitly targeted law firm Perkins Coie. The appeal was docketed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit as Case No. 25-5241. In her May 2 decision, Judge Howell ruled the Executive Order unconstitutional and condemned it as an “unprecedented attack” on the “foundational principles” of the judicial system.Sept. 23, 2025: In this appeal and the related cases — Jenner & Block LLP v. DOJ, No. 25-5265, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP v. EOP, No. 25-5277, and Susman Godfrey LLP v. EOP, No. 25-5310—the D.C. Circuit directed the parties to file, within 30 days, motions to govern further proceedings in light of potential duplicative briefing, including whether the cases should be held in abeyance, consolidated, or argued together, proposed briefing formats, and justifications for any separate or overlength briefs.Oct. 8, 2025: Following the government's Oct. 6 motion for a stay, the D.C. Circuit ordered that the government’s appeal — as well as in Jenner & Block LLP v. DOJ, No. 25-5265, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP v. EOP, No. 25-5277 and Susman Godfrey LLP v. EOP, No. 25-5310–be held in abeyance pending further order of the court due to the government shutdown.Feb. 6, 2026: The D.C. Circuit consolidated appeals in four cases involving challenges to executive orders targeting law firms and lawyers. The court consolidated Perkins Coie LLP v. U.S. Department of Justice, Case No. 25-5241, Jenner & Block LLP v. Department of Justice, Case No. 25-5265, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP v. Executive Office of the President, Case No. 25-5277, and Susman Godfrey LLP v. Executive Office of the President, Case No. 25-5310. The court directed the Clerk to schedule oral argument on the same day and before the same panel as Zaid v. Executive Office of the President (D.C. Cir.), Case No. 26-5009. The court scheduled oral argument for May 14, 2026.April 3, 2026: State Attorneys General submitted an amicus brief in support of Plaintiffs.


Jenner & Block v. Department of Justice (D.D.C.)1:25-cv-00916Complaint2025-03-28Plaintiff-side State AmicusGovernment Action BlockedCivil Liberties and RightsAction Against Law Firms and Lawyers (Executive Order 14230 - Perkins Coie) (Executive Order 14246 - Jenner & Block) (Executive Order - WilmerHale) (Presidential Memorandum)2026-04-03On March 25, 2025, President Donald Trump issued an executive order accusing Jenner & Block LLP of engaging in partisan representation, “support[ing] attacks against women and children based on a refusal to accept the biological reality of sex, and back[ing] the obstruction of efforts to prevent illegal aliens from committing horrific crimes and trafficking deadly drugs within our borders.” The executive order directs various agencies to impose sanctions against the firm, including: terminating the firm’s government contracts; requiring government contracting agencies to disclose any business they do with Jenner; suspending employees’ security clearances pending a national-security review; ordering a review of the firm’s hiring practices by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; limiting employees’ access to federal buildings; and directing agencies not to hire Jenner & Block employees. The Plaintiff sued on March 28, alleging that the executive action is unconstitutional, violating separation of powers, the First Amendment’s protections for freedom of speech, petition, and association, the Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause, the Fifth and Sixth Amendment’s right to counsel, and the Fourteenth Amendment’s Equal Protection Clause. They seek a declaratory judgment that the order is unconstitutional and an immediate injunction stopping implementation of the order pending court review, followed by preliminary and permanent injunctions. Jenner & Block also submitted a motion for a temporary restraining order with proposed text, that enjoined only Sections 1 (Purpose), 3 (Contracting), and 5 (Personnel including access to Federal Government buildings) of the executive order. On the same day, the court held a hearing, and Judge John Bates granted the TRO.April 8, 2025: Jenner filed its motion for summary judgment on all claims, requesting a permanent injunction against the implementation of the EO. On the same day, the Department of Justice filed its motion to dismiss.April 11, 2025: State Attorneys General submitted an amicus brief in support of Plaintiffs.April 17, 2025: Jenner filed its memorandum in opposition to the Department of Justice’s motion to dismiss. On the same day, the Department of Justice filed its memorandum in opposition to Jenner’s motion for summary judgment.May 23, 2025: Judge John Bates issued an order and opinion granting Jenner & Block’s motion for summary judgment and denied the government’s motion to dismiss, declaring EO 14, 246 unlawful and “null and void” because it violates the First Amendment, and permanently enjoined the government from implementing or enforcing the order, directing agencies to rescind any steps taken under it and to resume ordinary dealings with the firm as if the order had never issued.June 2, 2025: Judge Bates denied the government’s request to amend 