



























Social Security performance | SSA











  Skip to main content












An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know


Here's how you know









 Official websites use .gov 

              A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
            






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS 
A lock ( 
Lock
A locked padlock


 ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.


























        Social Security
      




EnglishEspañol





          Account
        



Sign in



Account




Menu


Menu










Benefits


Medicare


Card & record






Benefits





By Phase



Prepare




Apply




Manage benefits







By Type



Retirement




Disability




Survivor




Family




Supplemental Security Income (SSI)








Benefits overview







Medicare




Plan for Medicare




Sign up for Medicare




Request to lower IRMAA




Apply for Part D Extra Help




Manage Medicare benefits






Card & record




Number & card




Personal record








Search








EnglishEspañol












Sign in




My account




Account home




Sign out














Breadcrumb


Home


                                    Social Security performance
                              
















Social Security performance











Social Security performance

We serve more than 300 million Americans who have an active Social Security number, and more than 75 million people depend on Social Security benefits.  We are committed to meeting people where they want to be served. The most convenient way for customers to access our services is by using your personal my Social Security account, which provides immediate access to important information and tools, putting you in control of your time.  You can use your personal my Social Security account 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 


 

 




The green bars represent successful online transactions. The blue bars represent calls received on our National 800 Number.  The orange bars represent calls received by our field offices across the nation.  The red bars represent individuals that visit our field offices. Customers are increasingly choosing online and telephone options, which are 96.7 percent of our year-to-date customer contacts.  Year to date through March, our online transactions increased by over 12 percent compared to the same time last year.








Service channels at a glance - March 2026






 







Our most recent monthly performance results for each service channel are available in the boxes above.  We are improving performance across all our service channels. Compared to service levels in March 2025, we estimate our reduction in wait times through March 2026 is saving the public 13.5 million hours.  Below are the time savings by service channel.

Online Services: saves customers 9.1 million hours
National 800 Number: saves customers 3.9 million hours
Field Offices: saves customers that call and visit 500,000 hours









Online metrics




The public's preference for digital self-service has grown. With your personal my Social Security account, you can quickly access important information and resources whenever you need them.  

Create a my Social Security account to check your benefits or update your records 24 hours a day.
You can apply for benefits online.
Request a replacement card. In many cases, you do not need a card, but if you do, request one online. 

Year to date (October through March)





 







 














Phone metrics




Our self-service options help callers complete the following transactions quickly and conveniently without speaking to an agent:

Verify your benefits (rental/leasing process, buying a car, seeking other government benefits)
Check the status of a pending claim
Change your address
Request your 1099 tax form
Request a replacement Medicare card
Request information and forms
Obtain an answer to over 100 frequently asked questions

Phone self-service options help us serve more callers and provide faster service.
Year to date (October through March)






Remote Media URL














Remote Media URL

















National 800 Number callers have a shorter average wait time to speak with an agent. Our average speed of answer in March 2025 was 20 minutes and our answer rate was 41 percent. In March 2026, the National 800 Number average speed of answer was 7 minutes and our answer rate was 83 percent.





 














In-person / field office metrics




Regardless of why you visit an SSA office, we are committed to serving you as quickly as possible.

Very few services require you to visit a field office.  We encourage you to go online to reduce your wait time and avoid a trip to the office.
If you must come into a field office, make an appointment. Customers with an appointment wait on average about 6 minutes.

Actual wait times may vary across the country in local offices. Wait time data below may not represent the experience of every individual customer.





 







The blue bars in the chart above represent the average time a customer waits in our field offices without an appointment. The orange bars represent the average time a customer waits in our offices with an appointment. The green bars represent the combined customer in-office wait time. If you do need to visit us in-person, your wait time will be less if you schedule an appointment.
While callers are receiving faster service, at the same time, processing time for retirement and survivors claims is improving. We process most claims within 14 days if benefits are due immediately or before your benefits start.









 







The black line in the chart above represents the percentage of retirement and survivor claims processed timely by month. The blue bars represent the total number of retirement and survivor claims processed by month. 








Disability determination processing time




Disability claimants are receiving faster service, and fewer people are waiting for a decision on their disability claim.





 







The blue bars show the number of initial disability claims pending at the Disability Determination Services by month. The black line depicts the average number of days it takes to process initial disability claims by month. We are improving the time it takes to complete initial disability claim decisions and remain committed to reducing our processing time. 








Hearings processing time




If you disagree with the reconsideration determination, you may request a hearing before an administrative law judge. One of our key goals is to lower the average processing time for hearings to 270 days. The following charts highlight our significant progress in meeting our processing time goal and how customers are choosing to conduct their hearing.





 







The blue bars show the number of hearings pending by month. The black line depicts the average number of days it takes to process hearing requests by month. We are working to improve the time it takes to issue a hearing decision. 
Claimants who appeal their decision increasingly prefer the convenience of a virtual hearing.









 







The chart above shows how individuals chose to hold their hearing in fiscal years 2019 through 2025 and year to date (October through March 2026) this fiscal year. The orange bars in the chart above show the percentage of hearings held by agency video. The blue bars show the percentage of hearings held in-person. The green bars show the percentage of hearings held via virtual options (audio or online video).









 







The chart above shows how individuals chose to hold their hearing by month. The orange bars show the percentage of hearings held by agency video. The blue bars show the percentage of hearings held in person. The green bars show the percentage of hearings held via virtual options (audio or online video).  We remain committed to providing excellent customer service for individuals that request to hold a hearing using any of our options.






 


Last updated on April 10, 2026



















Return to top
















Support


Contact us


Find an office


Forms


Publications


Report fraud






Languages


Español


Other languages


Plain language






Services for


Employers & businesses


Government agencies


Other groups


Representatives






Resources


Careers


Chief actuary data


Communications


Financial reports


Initiatives


Research & policy

















Social Security Administration










































SSA.gov


An official website of the
                                    Social Security Administration













Secondary Footer




About SSA


Civil rights and compliance


Privacy policy


Office of the Inspector General


Accessibility statement


FOIA requests


Performance reports


System status








              Looking for U.S. government information and services?
                Visit USA.gov 


















